People are always ask me
if I know Tyler Durden.
Three minutes.
This is it.
Ground zero.
Do you have a speech for the occasion?
With a gun barrel between your teeth,
you speak only in vowels.
I can't think of anything.
For a second, I totally forget about
Tyler's controlled demolition thing
and I wonder how clean that gun is.
It's getting exciting now.
That old thing,
how you always hurt the one you love.
Well, it works both ways.
We have frontrow seats
for this theater of mass destruction.
The Demolitions Committee
of Project Mayhem
wrapped the foundation columns
of a dozen buildings with blasting gelatin.
And a few square blocks will be reduced
to smouldering rubble.
And a few blocks will be reduced
I know this...
because Tyler knows this.
Two and a half.
Think of everything we have accomplished.
And suddenly I realize that all of this,
the gun, the bombs, the revolution,
has got something to do
with a girl named Marla Singer.
Bob.
Bob had bitch tits.
This was a support group,
for men with testicular cancer.
The big moosie slobbering all over me,
that was Bob.
We are still men.
Yes, we are men.
Men is what we are.
Eight months ago,
Bob's testicles were removed.
Then hormone therapy.
He developed bitch tits
because his testosterone was too high
and his body upped the oestrogen.
Then now that was where I fit.
I think they are gonna have to open up
my pecs again and drain the fluid.
Between those huge, sweating tits
that hung enormous,
the way you would think of God's as big.
Ok.
You cry now.
No, wait. Back up.
Let me start earlier.
For six months,
I couldn't sleep.
I couldn't sleep...
With insomnia, nothing is real.
Everything is far away.
Everything is a copy,
of a copy,
of a copy.
When deepspace exploration ramps up,
it will be the corporations
that name everything.
The IBM Stellar Sphere.
The Microsoft Galaxy.
The Planet Starbucks.
I need you out of town
a little more this week.
We have got some red flags to cover.
It must have been Tuesday.
He was wearing his cornflower blue tie.
You want me to deprioritise my current reports,
Yep.
Until you advise of a status upgrade?
Make these your primary action items.
Here is your flight coupons.
Call me from the road if there is any snags.
He was full of pep.
Must have had his grande latte enema.
Like so many others,
I had become a slave,
to the Ikea nesting instinct.
Good morning.
Yes.
I would like to order Erika Pekkari dust ruffles.
Please hold.
If I saw something clever,
like a little coffee table
in the shape of a yinyang,
I had to have it.
The Klipsk personal office unit.
The Hovetrekke home Exerbike.
Or the Ohamshab sofa
with the Strinne green stripe pattern.
Even the Ryslampa wire lamps
of environmentally
friendly unbleached paper.
I'd flip through catalogues and wonder
What kind of dining set
defines me as a person?
I had it all.
Even the glass dishes
with tiny bubbles and imperfections,
proof that they were
crafted by the honest,
simple hardworking,
indigenous peoples of...
Please hold.
Wherever.
I was holding.
Your call is important to us.
We used to read pornography.
Now it was the Horchow collection.
No.
You can't die from insomnia.
What about narcolepsy?
I nod off, I wake up in strange places.
I have no idea how I got there.
You need to lighten up.
Can you please just give me something?
Red and blue Tuinals,
lipstickred Seconals...
No.
You need healthy, natural sleep.
Chew some valerian root
and get more exercise.
Hey, come on.
I am in pain.
You wanna see pain?
Swing by First Methodist, Tuesday nights.
See the guys with testicular cancer.
That's pain.
I always wanted three kids.
Two boys and a girl.
Mindy wanted two girls and a boy.
We never could agree on anything.
Well, she had...
she had her first child last week...
a girl.
With her...
with her new husband.
And thank God. You know?
I. I am glad for her.
Bec... because she deserves it.
Everyone, let's thank Thomas
for sharing himself with us.
Thank you, Thomas.
I look around this room,
and I see a lot of courage.
And that gives me strength.
We give each other strength.
It's time for the one on ones.
So let's all of us follow
Thomas good example and...
really open ourselves up.
Could you find a partner?
And this is how I met the big moosie.
His eyes already shrinkwrapped in tears.
Knees together.
Those awkward little steps.
My name is Bob.
Bob?
Bob had been a champion body builder.
You know that chest expansion
program you see on late night TV?
That was his idea.
I was a juicer.
You know, using steroids.
Diabonal and...
Wisterol.
They use that on racehorses,
for Christ is sakes.
And now I am...
bankrupt...
I am divorced,
my two grown kids,
won't even return my phone calls.
Strangers with this kind of honesty
make me go a big, rubbery one.
Go ahead...
Cornelius.
You can cry.
And then...
something happened.
I let go.
That's really good.
Lost in oblivion.
Dark and silent and complete.
I found freedom.
Losing all hope was freedom.
It's ok.
Babies don't sleep this well.
I became addicted.
If I didn't say anything,
people always assumed the worst.
They cried harder...
then I cried harder.
Now we are going to open the green door,
the heart chakra...
I was not really dying.
I was not host to cancer or parasites.
I was the warm little centre
that the life of this world crowded around.
Imagine your pain,
as a white ball of healing light.
It moves over your body, healing you.
Now keep this going.
Remember to breathe.
And step forward
through the back door of the room.
Where does it lead?
To your cave.
Step forward into your cave.
That's right.
You are going deeper into your cave,
and you are going to find...
your power animal.
Slide.
Every evening I died.
And every evening I was born again.
Resurrected.
Bob loved me because he thought
my testicles were removed too.
Being there,
pressed against his tits,
ready to cry.
This was my vacation.
And she...
ruined everything.
This is cancer, right?
This chick, Marla Singer,
did not have testicular cancer.
She was a liar.
She had no diseases at all.
I had seen her at Free and Clear,
my blood parasites group, Thursdays.
Then at Hope,
my bimonthly sicklecell circle.
And again at Seize the Day,
my tuberculosis, Friday night.
Marla,
the big tourist.
Her lie reflected my lie.
And suddenly,
I felt nothing.
I couldn't cry.
So once again,
I couldn't sleep.
Next group,
after guided meditation,
after we open our heart chakras,
when it's time to hug,
I'm gonna grab that bitch Marla Singer
and scream
Marla, you liar!
You big tourist! I need this! Now, get out!
I hadn't slept in four days.
When you have insomnia,
you are never really asleep
and you are never really awake.
To begin tonight's communion,
Chloe would like to say a few words.
Oh, yeah.
Chloe.
Chloe looked the way
Meryl Streep is skeleton would look
if you made it smile and walk around
a party being extra nice to everybody.
Well, I am still here.
But I don't know for how long.
That's as much certainty
as anyone can give me.
But I have got some good news.
I no longer have any fear of death.
But...
I am in a pretty lonely place.
No one will have sex with me.
I am so close to the end,
and all I want is to get laid for
the last time.
I have pornographic movies
in my apartment and...
lubricants and amyl nitrite.
Thank you, Chloe.
Everyone let's...
thank Chloe.
Thank you, Chloe.
Now let's...
ready ourself for guided meditation.
You are standing at the entrance
of your cave.
You step inside your cave and you walk...
if I did have a tumour,
I'd name it Marla.
Marla.
The little scratch on the roof
of your mouth
that would heal if you could stop
tonguing it,
but you can't.
Deeper into your cave as you walk.
You feel the healing energy of
this place all around you.
Now find your power animal.
Slide.
Ok.
Let's partner up.
Pick someone special to you tonight.
Hey.
We need to talk.
Sure.
I am onto you.
What?
Yeah.
You are a faker. You are not dying.
Sorry?
In the Tibetan philosophy,
Sylvia Plath sense, I know we are all dying.
Alright, but you are not dying
the way Chloe back there is dying.
So?
So you are a tourist.
I have seen you.
I saw you at melanoma,
I saw you at tuberculosis.
I saw you at testicular cancer!
I saw you practising this.
Practising what?
Telling me off.
Is it going as well as you hoped...
Rupert?
I will expose you.
Go ahead. I will expose you.
Alright, come together.
Let yourselves cry.
Oh, God. Why are you doing this?
It's cheaper than a movie
and there is free coffee's.
Look...
this is important. Ok.
These are my groups.
I have been coming for over a year.
Why do you do it?
I don't know.
When people think you are dying, then they
really really listen to you instead of just...
Instead of waiting for their turn to speak.
Yeah.
Share yourself, completely.
Look, you don't want to get into this.
It becomes an addiction.
Really?
I am not kidding. I can't cry,
if another faker is present,
and I need this.
So you gotta find somewhere else to go.
Candystripe a cancer ward.
It's not my problem.
Wait, wait, wait.
Hold on. Hold on. I will tell you.
We are gonna split up the week, ok?
You take lymphoma and tuberculosis.
You take tuberculosis.
My smoking doesn't go over at all.
Ok. Good. Fine.
Testicular cancer should be no contest, ok.
Technically, I have more
right to be there than you.
You still have your balls.
You are kidding.
I don't know.
Am I?
No. No.
What do you want?
I will take the parasites.
You can't have both the parasites, but
why don't you take the blood parasites.
I want brain parasites.
I will take the blood parasites, but
I am gonna take the organic brain dementia.
I want that.
You can't have the whole brain.
So far, you have four.
I only have two.
Ok.
Take both the parasites. they are yours.
Now we both have three...
Hey! You left half your clothes.
What, are you selling those?
Yes,
I am selling some clothes.
So,
we each have three. That's six.
What about the seventh day?
I want ascending bowel cancer.
The girl had done her homework.
No. No. I want...
I want bowel cancer.
That's your favourite too?
Tried to slip it by me?
Look, we are gonna split it. Ok?
Take the first and third Sunday
of the month.
Deal.
Looks like this is goodbye.
Well, let's not make
a big thing out of it, ok.
How is this for not making a big thing?
Hey, Marla!
Marla!
Maybe we should exchange numbers.
Should we?
We might wanna switch nights.
Ok.
This is how I met Marla Singer.
Marla's philosophy of life
is that she might die at any moment.
The tragedy she said,
was that she didn't.
It doesn't have your name!
Who are you?
Cornelius?
Rupert?
Travis?
Any of the stupid names
you give each night?
You wake up at SeaTac.
SFO.
LAX.
You wake up at O'Hare.
Dallas Fort Worth.
BWI.
Pacific. Mountain. Central.
Lose an hour. Gain an hour.
Check in for that flight
doesn't begin for another two hours, sir.
This is your life,
and it's ending one
minute at a time.
You wake up at Air Harbour International.
If you wake up at a different time,
in a different place,
could you wake up as a different person?
Everywhere I travel,
tiny life.
Single serving sugar,
single serving cream,
single pat of butter.
The microwave cordon bleu hobby kit.
Shampoo conditioner combos.
Sample package mouth wash.
Tiny bars of soap.
The people I meet on each flight,
they're single serving friends.
Between take off and landing,
we have our time together,
but that's all we get.
Welcome!
On a long enough time line,
the survival rate for
everyone drops to zero.
I was a recall coordinator.
My job was to apply the formula.
The infant went through the windshield.
Three points.
A new car built by my company
leaves somewhere travelling at 60mph.
The rear differential locks up.
The teenager's braces
are wrapped around the backseat ashtray.
Might make a good antismoking ad.
The car crashes and burns
with everyone trapped inside.
Now,
should we initiate a recall?
The father must have been huge.
See where the fat is burned to the seat?
The polyester shirt?
Very modern art.
Take the number of vehicles in the field. A.
Multiply it by the probable rate of failure. B.
Then multiply the result by
the average outofcourt settlement. C.
A x B x C...
equals X.
If X,
is less than the cost of a recall,
we don't do one.
Are there a lot of these kinds of accidents?
You would not believe.
Which car company do you work for?
A major one.
Every time the plane banked too sharply
on take off or landing,
I prayed for a crash,
or a midair collision.
Anything.
Life insurance pays off triple
if you die on a business trip.
If you are seated
in an emergency exit row,
you know,
and feel you would be unable or unwilling
to perform the duties listed on the safety card,
please ask a flight attendant
to reseat you.
It's a lot of responsibility.
You want switch seats?
No. I am not sure
I am the man for that particular job.
An exit door procedure at 30,000 feet.
The illusion of safety.
Yeah. I guess so.
You know why
they put oxygen masks on planes?
So you can breathe.
Oxygen gets you high.
In a catastrophic emergency,
you are taking giant panic breaths.
Suddenly you become euphoric,
docile.
You accept your fate.
It's alright here.
Emergency water landing, 600mph.
Blank faces. Calm as Hindu cows.
That's...
That's an interesting theory.
What do you do?
What do you mean?
What do you do for a living?
Why?
So you can pretend like you are interested?
Ok.
You have a kind of sick desperation
in your laugh.
We have the exact same briefcase.
Soap.
Sorry?
I make and I sell soap.
The yardstick of civilization.
And this is how I met...
Tyler Durden.
Did you know if you mixed equal parts of gasoline
and frozen orange juice concentrate,
you can make napalm?
No, I did not know that. Is that true?
That's right.
One can make all kinds of explosives
using simple household items.
Really?
If one were so inclined.
Tyler, you are by far...
the most interesting single serving friend
I have ever met.
See everything,
everything on a plane is single serving.
I get it. It's very clever.
Thank you.
How is that working out for you?
What?
Being clever.
Great.
Keep it up, then.
Keep it right up.
Now, a question of etiquette.
As I pass, do I give you the ass or the crotch?
How I came to live with Tyler is...
Airlines have this policy
about vibrating luggage.
Was it ticking?
Actually, throwers don't worry about
ticking because modern bombs don't tick.
Sorry. Throwers?
Baggage handlers.
But when a suitcase vibrates,
then the throwers got to call the police.
My suitcase...
was vibrating?
Nine times out of ten
it's an electric razor, but...
every once in a while...
it's a dildo.
Of course it's company policy never to...
imply ownership in the event of a dildo.
We have to use the indefinite article,
a dildo never...
your dildo.
I don't own...
I had everything in that suitcase.
My CK shirts.
My DKNY shoes.
My AX ties.
Never mind.
Hey! That's my car!
Home was a condo on
the 15th floor of a filing cabinet
for widows and young professionals.
The walls were solid concrete.
A foot of concrete is important,
when your next door neighbour
lets her hearing aid go
and has to watch game shows
at full volume.
Or when a volcanic blast
and debris that used to be
your furniture and personal effects
blows out of your floor to ceiling windows
and sails flaming into the night.
I suppose these things happen.
There is nothing up there.
You can't go into the unit.
Police orders.
Do you have somebody you can call?
How embarrassing.
A houseful of
condiments and no food.
The police would later tell me that
the pilot light might have gone out,
letting out just a little bit of gas.
That gas could have
slowly filled the condo,
1700 square feet with high ceilings,
for days and days.
Then the refrigerator's compressor
could have clicked on.
Yeah?
I can hear you breathing, you...
if you ask me now,
I couldn't tell you why I called him.
Hello?
Who is this?
Tyler?
We met... We met on the airplane.
We had the same suitcase.
The... the clever guy.
Oh, yeah. Right.
Ok.
I called a second ago.
There was no answer. I am at a payphone.
Yeah, I star 69 you.
I never pick up my phone.
So what is up?
Well...
You are not gonna believe this.
You know man, it could be worse.
A woman could cut off
your penis while you sleeping,
and toss it out the window of a moving car.
There is always that.
And now it's just...
when you buy furniture,
you tell yourself
That's it. That's the last sofa
I will gonna need.
Whatever else happens,
I have got that sofa problem handled.
I had it all.
I had a stereo that was very decent.
A wardrobe that was
getting very respectable.
I was close...
to being complete.
Shit man, and now it's all gone.
All gone.
Do you know what a duvet is?
It's a comforter.
It's a blanket. Just a blanket.
Why do guys like us
know what a duvet is?
Is this essential to our survival,
in the hunter-gatherer sense of the word?
No.
What are we, then?
I don't know.
Consumers.
Right.
We are consumers.
We are by products of a...
lifestyle obsession.
Murder, crime, poverty.
These things don't concern me.
What concerns me,
are celebrity magazines,
television with 500 channels,
some guy's name on my underwear.
Rogaine. Viagra.
Olestra.
Martha Stewart.
Fuck Martha Stewart.
Martha's polishing
the brass on the Titanic.
It's all going down, man.
So fuck off with your...
sofa units and Strinne green stripe patterns.
I say never be complete.
I say stop being perfect.
I say let's... let's evolve.
Let the chips fall where they may.
But that's me, and I could be wrong.
Maybe it's a terrible tragedy.
It's just stuff.
It's not a tragedy.
Well,
you did lose a lot of versatile solutions
for modern living.
Fuck, you are right. No, I don't smoke.
My insurance is probably
gonna cover it, so...
What?
The things you own,
end up owning you.
But do what you like, man.
It's late.
Hey, thanks for the beer.
Yeah, man.
I should find a hotel.
What?
A hotel?
Yeah.
Just ask, man.
What are you talking about?
Oh, God.
Three pitchers of beer
and you still can't ask.
What?
You called me because
you need a place to stay.
Oh, hey. No, no, no.
Yes, you did.
So just ask.
Cut the foreplay and just ask, man.
Would... Would that be a problem?
Is it a problem for you to ask?
Can I stay at your place?
Yeah.
Thanks.
I want you to do me a favour.
Yeah, sure.
I want you to hit me
as hard as you can.
What?
I want you to hit me as hard as you can.
Let me tell you a little bit
about Tyler Durden.
Tyler was a night person.
While the rest of us were sleeping,
he worked.
He had one part-time job
as a projectionist.
A movie doesn't come all on one big reel.
It comes on a few.
So someone has to be there to switch
the projectors,
at the exact moment that one
reel ends and the next one begins.
If you look for them,
you can see little dots,
come into the upper right corner
of the screen.
In the industry we call them,
cigarette burns.
That's the cue for a changeover.
He flips the projectors,
movie keeps right on going and
nobody in the audience has any idea.
Why would anyone want this shit job?
Because it affords him other
interesting opportunities.
Like splicing a frame of pornography
into family films.
So when the snooty cat
and the courageous dog
with the celebrity voices meet
for the first time in reel three,
that's when you will catch a flash
of Tyler's contribution to the film.
Nobody knows
that they saw it but they did.
Nice big cock.
Even a humming bird
couldn't catch Tyler at work.
Tyler also works sometimes as a banquet
waiter at the luxurious Pressman Hotel.
He was the guerrilla terrorist
of the food service industry.
Do not watch.
I cannot go when you watch.
Apart from seasoning the lobster bisque,
he farted on meringues,
sneezed on braised endives...
As for the cream of mushroom soup, well...
Go ahead, tell them.
You get the idea.
What do you want me to do?
You just want me to hit you?
Come on. Do me this one favour.
Why?
Why? I don't know why. I don't know.
Never been in a fight. You?
No. But that's a good thing.
No it is not. How much can you know about
yourself if you have never been in a fight?
I don't wanna die without any scars.
Come on. Hit me before I lose my nerve.
Oh, God. This is crazy.
So go crazy! Let her rip.
I don't know about this.
I don't either.
Who gives a shit? No one's watching.
What do you care?
Hey, this is crazy.
You want me to hit you?
That's right.
Where? Like, in the face?
Surprise me.
This is so fucking stupid.
Motherfucker!
You hit me in the ear!
Well, Jesus, I am sorry.
Christ!
Why the ear, man?
I fucked it up.
No, that was perfect.
No, it's alright.
It really hurts.
Right.
Hit me again.
No, you hit me. Come on!
We should do this again sometime.
Where is your car?
What car?
I don't know how
Tyler found that house,
but he said he'd
been there for a year.
It looked like it was
waiting to be torn down.
Most of the windows were boarded up.
There was no lock on the front door
from when the police,
or whoever, kicked it in.
The stairs were ready to collapse.
I didn't know if he owned it
or if he was squatting.
Neither would have surprised me.
Yep.
That's you.
That's me.
That's the toilet. Good?
Yeah, thanks.
What a shithole.
Nothing worked.
Turning on one light meant
another light in the house went out.
There were no neighbours.
Just some warehouses
and a paper mill.
That fart smell of steam.
The hamster-cage smell of wood chips.
Hey. What have we here?
Hey, guys.
Hey.
Every time it rained,
we had to kill the power.
By the end of the first month,
I didn't miss TV.
I didn't even mind the warm,
stale refrigerator.
Can I be next?
Alright, man.
Lose the tie.
At night, Tyler and I were alone
for half a mile in every direction.
Rain trickled down through
the plaster and the light fixtures.
Everything wooden swelled and shrank.
Everywhere were rusted nails
to snag your elbow on.
The previous occupant,
had been a bit of a shut in.
Hey man, what are you reading?
Listen to this.
It's an article written
by an organ in the first person.
I am Jack's Medulla Oblongata.
Without me, Jack could not regulate
his heart rate,
blood pressure or breathing.
There is a whole series of these.
I am Jill's Nipples.
I am Jack's Colon.
Yeah. I get cancer. I kill Jack.
After fighting, everything else in
your life got the volume turned down.
What?
You could deal with anything.
Have you finished those reports?
If you could fight anyone,
who would you fight?
I would fight my boss, probably.
Really?
Yeah. Why? Who would you fight?
I would fight my dad.
I don't know my dad.
I mean, I know him but...
he left when I was like six years old.
Married this other woman
and had some other kids.
He like did this every six years.
He moves city and starts a new family.
Fucker is setting up franchises.
My dad never went to college,
so it was real important that I go.
That sounds familiar.
So I graduate.
I call him up long distance
and say Dad, now what?
He says, get a job.
Same here.
Now I am 25.
Make my yearly call again.
Dad, now what?
He says, I don't know.
Get married.
You can't get married.
I am a 30-year-old boy.
We are a generation of men
raised by women.
I am wondering if another woman
is really the answer we need.
Most of the week,
we were Ozzie and Harriet.
But every Saturday night,
we were finding something out.
We were finding out more and more
that we were not alone.
It used to be that when
I came home angry or depressed,
I should just clean my condo.
Polish my Scandinavian furniture.
I should have been
looking for a new condo.
I should have been haggling
with my insurance company.
I should have been upset about
my nice, neat, flaming little shit,
but I was not.
Basic premise of cybernetting an office,
is make things more efficient.
Monday mornings, all I can do is
thinking about next week.
Can I get the icon in cornflower blue?
Absolutely.
Efficiency is priority no. 1, people.
Because waste is a thief.
I showed this already to my man here.
You liked it, didn't you?
You can swallow a pint of blood
before you get sick.
It was right in everyone's face.
Tyler and I just made it visible.
It was on the tip of
everyone's tongue.
Tyler and I just gave it a name.
Come on people, you have gotta go home!
Turn off the jukebox. Lock the back.
Every week,
Tyler gave the rules
that he and I decided.
Gentlemen!
Welcome to Fight Club.
The first rule of Fight Club is...
you do not talk about Fight Club.
The second rule of Fight Club is...
you do not talk about Fight Club!
Third rule of Fight Club
someone yells stop,
goes limp, taps out,
the fight is over.
Fourth rule.
Only two guys to a fight.
Fifth rule.
One fight at a time, fellas.
Sixth rule, no shirts, no shoes.
Seventh rule.
Fights will go on as long as they have to.
And the eighth and final rule.
If this is your first night at Fight Club,
you have to fight.
This kid from work,
Ricky, couldn't remember whether
you ordered pens with blue ink or black.
But Ricky was a god for ten minutes
when he trounced
the matre D' of a local food court.
Sometimes,
all you could hear were the flat,
hard, packing sounds over the yelling.
Or the wet choke when someone
caught their breath and sprayed...
Stop!
You were not alive anywhere
like you were there.
But Fight Club only exists in the hours
between when Fight Club
starts and when Fight Club ends.
Even if I could tell someone
they had a good fight,
I would not be talking
to the same man.
Who you were in Fight Club
is not who you were
in the rest of the world.
A guy came to Fight Club for the first
time.
His ass was a wad of cookie dough.
After a few weeks,
he was carved out of wood.
If you could fight any celebrity,
who would you fight?
Alive or dead?
Doesn't matter. Who'd be tough?
Hemingway.
You?
Shatner.
I would fight William Shatner.
We all started seeing things differently.
Everywhere we went,
we were sizing things up.
I felt sorry for guys packed into gyms,
trying to look like how Calvin Klein
or Tommy Hilfiger said they should.
Is that what a man looks like?
Self-improvement is masturbation.
Now, self destruction...
Excuse me.
Fight Club was not about winning or losing.
It was not about words.
The hysterical shouting was in tongues,
like at a Pentecostal Church.
Is that it?
Stop! Stop!
When the fight was over,
nothing was solved.
But nothing mattered.
Cool.
Afterwards, we all felt saved.
Hey, man. How about next week?
How about next month?
Irvine, you are in the middle.
New guy, you too.
Sometimes, Tyler spoke for me.
He fell down some stairs.
I fell down some stairs.
Fight Club became the reason to cut
your hair short or trim your fingernails.
Ok.
Any historical figure.
I would fight Gandhi.
Good answer.
How about you?
Lincoln.
Lincoln?
Big guy, big reach.
Skinny guys fight till they are burger.
Fuck!
Hey,
even the Mona Lisa's falling apart.
Hello?
Where have you been the last eight weeks?
Marla?
How did you find me?
You left a forwarding number.
I have not seen you at any support groups.
We split them up.
That was the idea. Remember?
Yeah, but you have not been going to yours.
How do you know?
I cheated.
I found a new one.
Really?
It's for men only.
Like the testicle thing?
Look, this is a bad time.
I have been going to Debtors Anonymous.
You wanna see some really fucked up people...
I am just on my way out.
Me too. I have got a stomach full of Xanax.
I took what was left of a bottle.
It might have been too much.
Just picture watching Marla Singer throw herself
around her crummy apartment.
This is not a for-real suicide thing.
This is probably just a cry for help things.
This could go on for hours.
So you are staying in tonight then?
Do you wanna wait...
and hear me describe death?
Do you wanna listen,
and see if my spirit can use a phone?
Have you ever heard a death rattle before?
Tyler's door was closed.
I would been living here for two months
and Tyler's door was never closed.
You won't believe the dream
I had last night.
I can hardly believe
anything from last night.
What are you doing here?
What?
This is my house.
What are you doing in my house?
Fuck you!
Oh, you have got some fucked up friends!
I am telling you.
Limber, though.
Silly cooze.
So I come in last night.
Phone is off the hook.
Guess who is on the other end.
I already knew the story
before he told it to me.
Have you ever heard
a death rattle before?
Do you think it will live up to its name?
Or will it just be a death,
hairball?
Prepare...
to evacuate soul.
Ten.
Nine.
Eight.
Now how could Tyler, of all people,
think it was a bad thing
that Marla Singer was about to die?
Five.
Four.
Three.
Hang on.
You got here fast.
Did I call you?
The mattress is all sealed
in slippery plastic.
Don't worry.
It's not a threat to you.
Oh, fuck!
Somebody called the cops.
513. Hey, where is 513?
End of the hall.
The have a girl who lives there
used to be a charming, lovely girl.
She has lost faith in herself.
Miss Singer, let us help you!
She is a monster!
You have every reason to live.
She is infectious human waste!
Miss Singer!
Good luck trying to save her!
If I fall asleep,
I am done for.
You are gonna have to keep me up...
all night.
Un fucking believable.
He was obviously able to handle it.
You know what I mean. You fucked her.
No, I didn't.
Never?
No.
You are not into her, are you?
No! God, not at all.
I am Jack's raging bile duct.
Are you sure?
You can tell me.
Believe me, I am sure.
Put a gun to my head
and paint the walls with my brains.
That's good.
Because she is a predator
posing as a house pet.
Stay away from her.
Shit came out of this woman's mouth,
I had never heard!
My God.
I have not been fucked like that
since grade school.
How could Tyler not go for that?
The night before last, he was splicing
sex organs into Cinderella.
Marla doesn't need a lover,
she needs a fucking caseworker.
She needs a wash.
This is not love, it's sport fucking.
She invaded my support groups
and now she would invaded my home.
Hey, hey. Sit down.
Now listen,
I can't have you talking to her about me.
Why would I talk to her?
You say anything about me
or what goes on in this
house to her or anybody,
we are done.
Now promise me.
Ok.
You promise?
Yeah, I promise.
Promise.
I just said, I promise! What...
That's three times you promised.
If only I had wasted a couple of minutes
and gone to watch Marla Singer die,
none of this would have happened.
Yeah!
Harder!
Harder, yes!
I could have moved to another room.
On the third floor
where I might not have heard them.
But I didn't.
What are you doing?
Just going to bed.
You wanna finish her off?
No.
No, thank you.
I found a cigarette.
Who were you talking to?
Shut up.
I became the calm
little centre of the world.
I was the Zen master.
I wrote little haiku poems.
I emailed them to everyone.
Is that your blood?
Some of it, yeah.
You can't smoke in here.
Take the rest of the day off.
Come back Monday with some clean clothes.
Get yourself together.
I got right in everyone's
hostile little face.
Yes, these are bruises from fighting.
Yes, I am comfortable with that.
I am enlightened.
You give up the condo life,
give up all your flaming
worldly possessions,
go live in a dilapidated house
in a toxic-waste part of town,
and you have to come home,
to this.
Hello?
Yes, this is Detective Stern
with the Arson Unit.
We have new information about
the incident at your former condo.
Yes?
I don't know if you are aware,
but it seems,
someone sprayed Freon
into your front-door lock.
Then tapped it with a chisel
to shatter the cylinder.
No, I was not aware of that at all.
I am Jack's cold sweat.
Does this sound strange to you?
Yes, sir. Strange. Very strange.
The dynamite, dynamite?
Left a residue of ammonium
oxalate potassium perchloride.
Do you know what this means?
No. What does it mean?
It means it was home-made.
I am sorry.
This is just coming
as quite a shock to me, sir.
See whoever set this oh mighty dynamite
could have blown out your pilot
light days before the actual explosion.
The gas was just a detonator.
Who'd go and do such a thing?
I will ask the questions.
Tell him.
Tell him the liberator who destroyed my property
realigned my perceptions.
Excuse me. Are you there?
Hello, I am listening, it's a little hard to know
what to make of all this.
Have you recently made enemies with anyone
who might have access
to home made dynamite?
Enemies?
I reject the basic assumption civilization,
especially the importance
of material possessions.
Son, this is serious.
Yes, I know it's serious.
I mean that.
Yes, it's very serious.
Look, nobody takes this more seriously
than me. That condo was my life. Ok?
I loved every stick
of furniture in that place.
That was not just a bunch of stuff
that got destroyed.
It was me!
I would like to thank the Academy.
Is this not a good time for you?
Just tell him you fucking did it!
Tell him you blew it all up!
That's what he wants to hear.
Are you still there?
Wait.
Are you saying that I am a suspect?
No, no. I may need to talk to you first,
how about you just let me know
if you are gonna leave town.
Ok?
Ok.
Except for their humping,
Tyler and Marla were never
in the same room.
My parents pulled
this exact same act for years.
The condom is the glass slipper
of our generation.
You slip one on when you meet a stranger.
You dance all night,
then you throw it away.
The condom, I mean.
Not the stranger.
What?
I got this dress at a thrift store for $1.
It was worth every penny.
It's a bridesmaid's dress.
Someone loved it intensely for one day,
then tossed it.
Like a Christmas tree.
So special.
Then... bam!
It's on the side of the road.
Tinsel still clinging to it.
Like a sex crime victim,
underwear inside out,
bound with electrical tape.
Well then it suits you.
You can borrow it sometime.
Get rid of her.
What? You get rid of her!
Don't mention me.
I am six years old again,
passing messages between parents.
You know what? I really think
it's time you got out of here.
Don't worry, I am leaving.
Not that we don't love your little visits.
You know, you are such a nutcase.
I can't even began to keep up.
Gotta get off
Thanks. Goodbye.
Gotta get off of this merry-go-round
Gonna get, need to get, gotta get...
You kids!
Why do you still waste time with her?
I will say this about Marla.
At least she is trying to hit bottom.
What, and I am not?
Sticking feathers up your butt
does not make you a chicken.
What are we doing tonight?
Tonight...
we make soap.
Really?
To make soap, first we render fat.
The salt balance has to be just right,
so the best fat for making soap
comes from humans.
Wait. What is this place?
A liposuction clinic.
Pay dirt!
Richest, creamiest fat in the world.
The fat of the land!
No!
Don't pull it.
Oh, God!
Give me another one.
As the fat renders, the tallows float
to the surface.
Like in Boy Scouts.
It's hard to imagine you as a Boy Scout.
Keep stirring.
Once the tallow hardens,
you skim off a layer of glycerine.
If you would add nitric acid,
you got nitroglycerin.
If you then add sodium nitrate,
and a dash of sawdust,
you got dynamite.
Yeah, with enough soap,
one could blow up just about anything.
Tyler was full of useful information.
Now ancient peoples found their clothes got cleaner
when washed in a certain point of the river.
You know why?
No.
Because human sacrifices were once made
on the hills above this river.
Bodies burned,
water seeped through the wooden ashes
to create lye.
This is lye.
The crucial ingredient.
Once it mixed with the melted fat
of the bodies,
thick white soapy discharge
crept into the river.
May I see your hand, please?
What is this?
This is a chemical burn.
It will hurt more than you have ever
been burned and you will have a scar.
What are you doing?
Kind of meditation worked for cancer,
it could work for this.
Stay with the pain. Don't shut this out.
No God! God!
Look at your hand.
The first soap was made
from the ashes of heroes,
like the first monkey shot into space.
Without pain, without sacrifice,
we would have nothing.
I tried not to think
of the words searing or flesh.
Stop it! This is your pain,
this is your burning hand.
It's right here.
I am going to my cave.
I am going to my cave
to find my power animal.
No! Don't deal with this
the way those dead people do!
Come on!
I get the point! Ok, please!
No!
What you are feeling
is premature enlightenment.
It's the greatest moment of your life, man,
and you are off somewhere missing it!
I am not...
Shut up!
Our fathers were our models for God.
If our fathers bailed,
what does that tell you about God?
No, no, I...
Listen to me.
You have to consider the possibility
that God does not like you.
He never wanted you.
In all probability, he hates you.
This is not the worst thing
that can happen.
What is it?
We don't need him!
We don't! I agree! I gotta go!
Fuck damnation man, fuck redemption.
We are God's unwanted children?
So be it!
I am getting water!
Listen!
You can use water over
your head and make it worse or...
Look at me!
Or use vinegar to neutralize the burn.
Please let me have it, please!
First, you have to give up.
First, you have to know,
not fear,
know that someday, you are gonna die.
You don't know how this feels!
It's only after we have lost everything
that we are free to do anything.
Ok.
Congratulations.
You are one step closer to hitting bottom.
Tyler sold his soap to department stores
at $20 a bar.
God knows what they charged.
This is the best soap.
Why, thank you, Susan.
It was beautiful.
We were selling rich women
their own fat asses back to them.
He was wearing his yellow tie.
I didn't even wear a tie to work anymore.
The first rule of Fight Club
is you don't talk about Fight Club?
I am half asleep again.
I must have left the original
in the copy machine.
The second rule of Fight... Is this yours?
Pretend you are me.
Make a managerial decision.
You find this. What would you do?
Well, I gotta tell you,
I would be very, very careful
who you talk to about that.
Because the person who wrote that...
is dangerous.
And this button-down,
Oxford-cloth psycho might just snap
and then stalk from office to office
with an Armalite AR10 carbine
gas-powered semi-automatic weapon,
pumping round after round
into colleagues and co-workers.
This might be someone
you have known for years.
Someone very, very close to you.
Tyler's words coming out of my mouth.
And I used to be such a nice guy.
Or maybe you should not bring me every
little piece of trash you happened to pick up.
Compliance and Liability.
My tit is gonna rot off.
Will you excuse me?
I need to take this.
What are you talking about.
I need you to check and see if there is
a lump in my breast.
Go to a hospital.
I can't afford to throw money on a doctor.
I don't know about this, Marla.
Please?
She didn't call Tyler.
I'm neutral in her book.
That's nice.
Taking food to Mrs...
Haniver and Mrs. Raines.
Where are they, exactly?
Tragically, they are dead.
I am alive and I am in poverty.
You want any?
No, no.
I got one for you.
Thanks for the thought.
What happened to your hand?
Oh, nothing.
Right there?
Feel anything?
No.
Well, make sure.
Ok, I am pretty sure.
You feel nothing?
No, nothing.
Well, that's a relief.
Thank you.
I... I mean...
No problem.
I wish I could return the favour.
There is not a lot of breast cancer
in the men of my family.
I could check your prostate.
I think I am ok.
Well, thanks, anyway.
Are we done?
Yeah, we are done.
See you... around.
Cornelius?
Cornelius!
It's me!
Bob!
Hey, Bob.
We all thought you were dead.
No, no. Still here.
How are you, Bob?
Better than I have ever
been in my whole life.
Really? Still Remaining Men Together?
No, no.
I got something so much better now.
Really, what is it?
Well...
The first rule is,
I am not supposed to talk about it.
And the second rule is...
And the third rule is...
Bob, Bob.
I am a member.
Look at my face, Bob.
Oh, that's fucking... Fucking great.
I have never seen you there.
I go Tuesdays and Thursdays.
I go Saturday.
Congratulations.
Yeah, hey, to both of us, right?
Have you heard about the guy
that invented this thing?
Yeah, actually...
I hear all kinds of things.
Yeah.
Supposedly,
he was born in a mental institution,
and he sleeps,
only one hour a night.
He is a great man.
Do you know about Tyler Durden?
I didn't hurt you, did I?
Actually, you did.
Thank you for this.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Fight Club.
Bob! Bob!
This was mine and Tyler's gift.
Our gift to the world.
I look around, I look around,
I see a lot of new faces.
Shut up!
Which means a lot of people have been
breaking the first two rules of Fight Club.
Man, I see in Fight Club the strongest
and smartest men who've ever lived.
I see all this potential.
And I see it squandered.
Goddamn it,
an entire generation pumping gas.
Waiting tables.
Slaves with white collars.
Advertising has us chasing
cars and clothes.
Working jobs we hate
so we can buy shit we don't need.
We are the middle children of history, men.
No purpose or place.
We have no great war.
No great depression.
Our great war is a spiritual war.
Our great depression...
is our lives.
We have all been raised on television
to believe that one day
we could all be millionaires
and movie gods and rock stars.
But we won't.
We are slowly learning that fact.
And we are very,
very pissed off.
Yeah!
First rule of Fight Club is,
you do not talk about...
Who are you?
Who am I?
Yeah.
There is a sign on the front
that says Lou's Tavern.
I am fucking Lou.
Who the fuck are you?
Tyler Durden.
Who told you motherfuckers
that you could use my place?
We have a deal worked out with Irvine.
Irvine?
Irvine's at home with a broken collarbone.
He don't own this place.
I do.
How much money does he get for this?
There is no money.
Really?
Free to all.
Ain't that something.
It is, actually.
Look, stupid fuck!
I want everybody out of here right now.
Hey! You should join our club.
Did you hear what I just said?
You and your friend.
You hear me now?
No, I didn't quite catch that, Lou.
Still not getting it.
Ok, ok, ok, I got it.
I got it, I got it. Shit, I lost it.
Back! All of you!
Everybody back!
Lou!
Come on, man!
We really like this place.
That's right, Lou. Get it out.
Shut the fuck up.
Oh, yeah!
That's fucking funny?
Fucking guy's a loony, I am telling you.
Unbelievable.
You don't know where I have been, Lou.
Oh, my God!
You don't know where I have been!
Please let us keep it, Lou! Please, Lou!
Fucking use the basement! Christ!
I want your word, Lou! I want your word!
On my mother's eyes.
Thanks, Lou.
You too, big guy.
We'll see you next week.
This week,
each one of you
has a homework assignment.
You are gonna go out.
You are gonna start a fight,
with a total stranger.
and you are gonna lose.
Excellent choice, sir.
Hey! Watch out, jackass! Come on!
Now, this is not as easy as it sounds.
What... Son of a bitch!
Most people,
normal people, do just
about anything to avoid a fight.
Excuse me!
You sprayed me with your hose.
That's not necessary.
Jay! Go call 911!
Put the hose down.
Stop it! Stop it!
Sorry.
You bastard!
We need to talk.
Ok.
Where to begin?
With your constant absenteeism?
With your unpresentable appearance?
You are up for review.
I am Jack's complete lack of surprise.
What?
Let's pretend.
You are the Department of Transportation,
Ok?
Someone informs you that...
this company installs front seat
mounting brackets,
that never pass collision tests,
brake linings that fail after 1,000 miles,
and fuel injectors that explode
and burn people alive.
What then?
Are you threatening me?
No...
Get the fuck out of here. You are fired!
I have a better solution.
You keep me on the payroll
as an outside consultant
and in exchange for my salary,
my job will be never to tell people
these things that I know.
I don't even have to come into the office.
I can do this job from home.
Who... Who the fuck do you think you are?
You...
crazy little shit?
Security!
I am Jack's smirking revenge.
What the hell are you doing?
That hurt.
Why would you do that?
Oh, my God! No! Please stop!
What are you doing?
Oh, God, no! Please! No!
For some reason,
I thought of my first fight,
with Tyler.
No!
Under and behind and inside
everything this man took for granted,
something horrible had been growing.
Look.
Give me the pay cheques,
like I asked,
and you won't ever see me again.
And right then,
at our most excellent moment together...
Thank God!
Please don't hit me again.
Telephone, computer, fax machine,
52 weekly pay cheques
and 48 airline flight coupons.
We now had corporate sponsorship.
This is how Tyler and I were able to have
Fight Club every night of the week.
Now,
nobody was the centre of Fight Club
except the two men fighting.
The leader walked through the crowd,
out in the darkness.
Tyler was now involved in a class
action lawsuit
with the Pressman Hotel over
the urine content of their soup.
I am Jack's wasted life.
Thank you, sir.
Tyler dreamed up
new homework assignments.
He handed them out in sealed envelopes.
Did you know there is a Fight
Club up in Delaware City.
Yeah, I heard.
There is one in Penns Grove too.
Leave it.
Bob even found one up in New Castle.
Yeah, did you start that one?
No, I thought you did.
No.
Stop for a second.
Hey, what are we doing?
Turn around.
What are we doing?
Homework assignment.
What kind of homework assignment?
Human sacrifice.
Hey! Is that a gun?
Please!
Please tell me that's not a gun.
It's a gun.
Meet me in the back.
No, no! Hey! Don't fuck around!
On a long enough time line,
the survival rate for everyone
drops to zero.
Stop. What are you doing? Come on.
Hands behind your back.
Give me your wallet.
Raymond K. Hessel.
1320 SE Banning, Apartment A.
Small cramped basement apartment?
How did you know?
Because they give shitty basement apartments
letters instead of numbers.
Raymond!
You are going to die.
No!
Is that your mom and dad?
Mom and dad are gonna have to call
the kindly doctor service over
to pick up your dental records.
You want to know why?
Because there will be
nothing left of your face.
Oh, come on! Come on!
An expired community college student ID.
What did you study, Raymond?
S... Stuff.
Stuff?
Were the midterms hard?
I asked you what you studied!
Biology, mostly.
Why?
I don't know.
What did you wanna be,
Raymond K. Hessel?
The question,
Raymond, was what did you want to be?
Answer him, Raymond! Jesus!
Veterinarian. Veterinarian.
Animals.
Yeah. Animal and stuff.
Stuff. Yeah, I got that.
That means that you
have to get more schooling.
Too much school.
Would you rather be dead?
No, please...
You would rather die, here,
on your knees,
in the back of a convenience store?
No. God please, no.
I am keeping your license.
Gonna check in on you.
I know where you live.
If you are not on your way to becoming
a veterinarian in six weeks,
you will be dead.
Now run on home.
Run, Forrest, run!
I feel ill.
Imagine how he feels.
Come on, this is not funny!
That was not funny.
What the fuck was the point of that?
Tomorrow will be the most beautiful day
of Raymond K. Hessel's life.
His breakfast will taste better
than any meal you and I have ever tasted.
You had to give it to him.
Come on.
He had a plan.
And it started to make sense
in a Tyler sort of way.
No fear.
No distractions.
The ability to let that
which does not matter,
in truly slide.
You are not your job.
You are not how much money
you have in the bank.
You are not the car you drive.
You are not the contents of your wallet.
You are not your fucking khakis.
You are the all singing,
all dancing crap of the world.
I will be out of your way in a sec.
You don't have to go.
Whatever.
No, I mean...
it's ok.
Are you still going to groups?
Yeah.
Chloe is dead.
Chloe.
When did that happen?
Do you care?
I don't know.
I have not thought about it in a while.
Yeah, well...
it was the smart move on her part.
Listen...
What... What are you getting out of all this?
What?
I mean, all this. Why do you keep...
Is this making you happy?
Yeah, well, sometimes.
What... I don't know. I don't understand.
Why... Why does a...
weaker person need to latch on
to a strong person? What the...
What is that?
What do you get out of it?
No... That's not the same thing at all.
I mean it were...
It's totally different with us.
We... We...
Us?
What do you mean by us?
I am sorry. Do you hear this?
Hear what?
You are not hearing all that
noise? Hold on a second.
No, wait! What were you saying?
Don't change the subject!
I want to talk about this.
You are not talking about me, are you?
No.
What?
That day you came over to my place,
playing doctor. What was going on there?
What are you talking about?
Nothing. Nothing.
I don't think so.
Oh, come on. What do you want?
Look at me.
No. What?
What is that?
It's nothing. Don't worry about it.
My God. Who did this?
A person.
Guy or girl?
What do you care if it's a guy or a girl?
What do you care if I ask?
It's none of your business. Leave me alone.
You are afraid to say.
I am not afraid to say. Let me go.
No. No!
Talk to me.
Let go of me. Leave me alone!
No!
This conversation...
is over.
Is over.
I just can't win with you, can I?
Hey, this is getting a little old!
What is... What is all this?
What do you think?
Hey, why do we need bunk beds?
Hey!
Too young.
Sorry.
What's all that? What...
Right, if that applicant is young,
tell him he is too young,
old too old, fat too fat.
Applicant?
If the applicant then waits for three days
without food,
shelter or encouragement,
he may then enter and begin his training.
Training for what?
You think this is a game?
You are too young to train here,
end of story.
Quit wasting our time.
Get the fuck out of here.
Bad news, friend.
It's not gonna happen.
Sorry if there was a misunderstanding.
It's not the end of the world.
Just...
go away.
Go.
You are trespassing
and I will have to call the police.
Don't you look at me!
You think you are ever getting in this house?
You are never getting
in this fucking house!
Never. Now get the fuck off my porch!
Get off my porch!
Sooner or later,
we all became what
Tyler wanted us to be.
I am gonna go inside
and I am gonna get a shovel.
Got two black shirts?
Sir?
Two pairs of black pants?
Yes, sir.
One pair black boots?
Sir.
Two pairs of black socks?
One black jacket?
Sir.
$300 personal burial money?
Yes sir.
Alright.
You are too old fat man.
Your tits are too big.
Get the fuck off my porch.
Bob! Bob!
Like a monkey ready to be shot into space.
Space monkey.
Ready to sacrifice himself
for the greater good.
You are too fucking old, fatty!
And you...
You are too fucking blond!
Get out of here, the both of you!
And so it went.
Listen up, maggots.
You are not special.
You are not a beautiful
or unique snowflake.
You are the same decaying organic matter
as everything else.
Tyler built himself an army.
We are the all singing,
all dancing crap of the world.
We are all part of the same compost heap.
Why was Tyler Durden building an army?
To what purpose?
For what greater good?
In Tyler we trusted.
No, no, no...
When he was like,
You are not your job,
I was like... Yeah!
Hey, what is all this?
Hey!
Ok!
What's going on?
We are celebrating.
What are we celebrating?
Go on.
Hey.
Let me get that for you.
Same great taste.
Pepsi. Generation Next.
Investigators are on
the scene right now.
Hold on, Police Commissioner
Jacobs has just arrived.
Commissioner, please.
Could you please tell us what you think
has happened here?
We believe this is one of many
recent acts of vandalism around the city
somehow related to underground...
boxing clubs.
We will be coordinating
a rigorous investigation.
That was Police Commissioner Jacobs
who just arrived on the scene,
here of a four alarm fire that
broke out about an hour ago.
Live from the Parker Morris Building,
she is hot.
Lauren Sanchez.
Back to you in the studio.
Yeah!
Holy shit!
Yeah.
What the fuck did you guys do?
How the blaze started,
but arson investigators
are on the premises...
Sir, the first rule of Project Mayhem
is you do not ask questions, sir.
The victory in the war against crime,
will not come overnight.
It will take dedication and commitment,
and most of all, cooperation.
Streets are safer now.
There is hope in the inner city.
However, this is only the beginning.
I gotta take a piss.
These are the first steps,
in a long journey.
That is why we have created Project Hope.
Bob.
Helping others,
with prevention and enforcement.
Project Hope will be a joint effort
between the police
and community leaders.
It will be a powerful new weapon
in the war against crime.
Wrap it around the top of his Hacky Sack, Bob.
Man! His balls are ice-cold.
Hi.
You are gonna call off
your rigorous investigation.
You are gonna publicly state that
there is no underground group
or,
these guys are gonna take your balls.
No!
They are gonna send one to the New York Times
and one to the LA Times. Press release style.
Look.
The people you are after
are the people you depend on.
We cook your meals.
We haul your trash.
We connect your calls.
We drive your ambulances.
We guard you while you sleep.
Do not fuck with us.
Ball check!
Bob, this way.
Let's go.
I am Jack's inflamed sense of rejection.
Hey!
Yeah!
I felt like putting a bullet between the eyes of
every panda that would not screw to save its species.
I wanted to open
the dump valves on oil tankers
and smother all those French beaches
I would never see.
I wanted to breathe smoke.
Where did you go, psycho boy?
I felt like destruct something beautiful.
Get him to a fucking hospital.
Yeah.
Don't worry, Mr. Durden.
Airport parking. Long term.
After you, Mr. Durden.
After you.
Something on your mind, dear?
No.
Alright, yeah. Why was not I told
about Project Mayhem?
First rule of Project Mayhem
is you do not ask questions.
What are you talking about?
Why didn't you include me
in the beginning?
Fight Club was the beginning.
Now it's moved out of the basements
and it's called Project Mayhem.
You and I started Fight Club together.
You remember that?
It's as much mine as it is yours.
You know?
Is this about you and me?
Yeah. I thought we were doing this together.
You are missing the point.
This does not belong to us.
We are not special.
Fuck that.
You should have told me.
Hey, Tyler!
Goddamn it, Tyler!
What do you want?
A statement of purpose?
Should I email you?
Should I put this on your action item list?
Oh, look...
You decide your own level of involvement!
I will! I wanna know certain things first!
The first rule of Project Mayhem...
Shut up!
I wanna know what you are thinking.
Fuck what you know!
You need to forget about what you know.
That's your problem.
Forget about what you thinking know
about life,
about friendship,
and especially about you and me.
What? What is that supposed to mean?
What...
What are you doing?
Guys, what will you wish you would done
before you die?
Paint a self portrait.
Build a house.
And you?
I don't know. Nothing. Nothing.
Get in the right lane.
You have to know the answer to this question!
If you died right now,
how would you feel about your life?
I don't know! I would not feel
anything good about my life.
Is that what you want to hear me say?
Fine.
Come on!
Not good enough.
Stop fucking around! Tyler!
Jesus Christ!
Goddamn it! Goddamn it! Fuck you!
Fuck Fight Club. Fuck Marla!
I am sick of all your shit!
Ok, man. Ok.
Quit screwing around.
Take the wheel!
Oh, look at you!
Look at you!
You are fucking pathetic!
Why? Why? What are you talking about?
Why do you think I blew up your condo?
What?
Hitting bottom is not a weekend retreat.
It's not a goddamn seminar.
Stop trying to control everything
and just let go!
Let go!
Alright. Fine.
Fine.
I had never been in a car accident.
This must have been
what all those people felt like
before I filed them
as statistics in my reports.
Goddamn!
We have just had a near life experience!
In the world I see,
you are stalking elk
through the Grand Canyon forests
around the ruins of Rockefeller Centre.
You will wear leather clothes
that will last you the rest of your life.
You will climb the great thick Kudzu vines
that wrap the Sears Tower.
And when you look down,
you will see tiny figures pounding corn,
laying strips of venison
in the empty car pool lane
of some abandoned superhighway.
Feel better, champion?
And then...
Tyler?
Tyler was gone.
Was I asleep?
Had I slept?
You are not a beautiful, unique snowflake,
you understand me?
The house had become a living thing,
wet inside from so many people
sweating and breathing.
We are all part
of the same compost heap...
So many people moving, the house moved.
Planet Tyler.
I had to hug the walls,
trapped inside
this clockwork of space monkeys.
You can't be smoking in here!
You know how much ether
is in this fucking house?
Cooking and working
and sleeping in teams.
Hang on a second.
It's under control, sir.
Where is Tyler?
Sir, the first rule of Project Mayhem
is you do not...
Right. Ok.
I am all alone.
My father dumped me.
Tyler dumped me.
I am Jack's broken heart.
What comes next in Project Mayhem
only Tyler knows.
The second rule is,
you do not ask questions.
Get the fuck away from me!
Who are all these people?
The Paper Street Soap Company.
Can I come in?
He is not here.
What?
Tyler...
is not here.
Tyler went away.
Tyler is gone.
Jesus! Get some help!
Two gunshot wounds coming through!
Make some fucking room!
What happened? What happened?
We were on assignment.
We were supposed to kill
two birds with one stone.
Destroy a piece of corporate art...
Operation Latte Thunder. Go!
And trash a franchise coffee bar.
We had it all worked out, sir.
It went smooth until...
Police! Freeze!
What?
They shot Bob.
They shot him in the head.
Fucking pigs!
Oh, God!
Those motherfuckers!
You morons.
You run around in ski masks
trying to blow things up?
What did you think was gonna happen?
Ok, quick!
We gotta get rid of the evidence.
We gotta get rid of his body!
Bury him.
What?
Take him to the garden and bury him.
Come on, people, let's go!
Get the fuck off!
Get away from him!
What are you talking about?
This is not fucking piece of evidence.
This is a person.
He is a friend of mine and you are not
gonna bury him in the fucking garden!
He was killed serving Project Mayhem, sir.
This is Bob.
But sir in...
In Project Mayhem, we have no names.
Now, you listen to me.
This is a man and he has a name,
and it's Robert Paulsen.
Ok?
Robert Paulsen?
He is a man,
and he is dead now because of us.
Alright? Do you understand that?
Yes.
I understand.
In death,
a member of Project Mayhem,
has a name.
His name is Robert Paulsen.
His name...
is Robert Paulsen.
Come on, guys. Please. Stop it.
His name is Robert Paulsen.
Shut up! This is all over with!
Tyler?
No, this is Detective Stern
of the Arson Unit.
I need to see you in my office...
I went to all the cities
on Tyler's used ticket stubs,
bar hopping.
I didn't know how, of why
but I could look at 50 different bars,
and somehow I just knew.
I am looking for Tyler Durden.
It's very important that I talk to him.
I wish I could help you,
sir.
Every city I went to,
as soon as I set foot off the plane,
I knew a Fight Club was close.
Hey! Hey!
Taxi!
Look at my face. I am a member.
Now, I just need to know
if you have seen Tyler.
I am not exposed to...
bespeak any such information to you,
nor would I, even if I had said information
you want at this juncture,
be able.
You are a moron.
I am afraid I have to ask you to leave.
Tyler had been busy,
setting up franchises
all over the country.
Was I asleep?
Had I slept?
Is Tyler my bad dream, or am I Tyler's?
We have just heard the stories.
What kind of stories?
Like nobody knows what he looks like.
He has facial reconstructive
surgery every three years.
That's the stupidest thing I ever heard.
Is it true about Fight Club in Miami?
Is Mr. Durden building an army?
I was living in a state
of perpetual dj vu.
Everywhere I went,
I felt I would already been there.
It was like following an invisible man.
The smell of dried blood.
Dirty, bare footprints circling each other.
That aroma of old sweat,
like fried chicken.
The feel of a floor still warm
from a fight the night before.
I was always just one step behind Tyler.
His name is Robert Paulsen.
His...
Welcome back, sir.
How have you been?
Do you know me?
Is this a test, sir?
No. This is not a test.
You were here last Thursday.
Thursday?
You were standing exactly where you are now,
asking how good security is.
It's tight as a drum, sir.
Who do you think I am?
Are you sure this is not a test?
No, this is not a test.
You are Mr. Durden.
You are the one who gave me this.
Please return your seat backs
to their full upright and locked position.
Yeah?
Marla, it's me.
Have we ever done it?
Done what?
Have we ever had sex.
What kind of stupid question is that?
Is it stupid because the answer is yes
or because the answer is no?
Is this a trick?
No, Marla. I need to know...
You mean you want to know if I think
we were just having sex
or making love?
We did make love?
Is that what you are calling it?
Just answer the question, Marla, please!
Did we do it or not?
You fuck me, then snub me.
You love me, you hate me.
You show me your sensitive side,
then you turn into a totally asshole.
Is that a pretty accurate description
of our relationship, Tyler?
We have just lost cabin pressure.
What did you just say?
What is wrong with you?
What did you just call me? Say my name!
Tyler Durden.
Tyler Durden, you fucking freak!
What's going on?
I am coming over!
No wait, Marla, I am not there!
You broke your promise.
Jesus, Tyler.
You fucking talked to her about me.
Tyler, what the fuck is going on here?
I ask you for one thing.
One simple thing.
Why do people think that I am you?
Answer me!
Sit.
Answer me. Why do people
think that I am you?
I think you know.
No, I don't.
Yes, you do.
Why would anyone
possibly confuse you with me?
I... I don't know.
You got it.
No.
Do not fuck with us!
Say it.
Because...
Say it!
Because we are the same person.
That's right.
We are the all singing, all dancing...
I don't understand this.
You were looking for a way
to change your life.
You could not do this on your own.
All the ways you wish you could be,
that's me.
I look like you wanna look,
I fuck like you wanna fuck,
I am smart,
capable and most importantly,
I am free in all the ways that you are not.
Oh, no.
Tyler's not here. Tyler went away.
Tyler's gone.
What?
This is not possible.
No, this is crazy.
People do it every day.
They talk to themselves.
They see themselves as they'd like to be.
They don't have
the courage you have,
to just run with it.
Naturally you are still wrestling with it, so...
sometimes you are still you.
We should do this again sometime.
Other times,
you imagine yourself watching me.
This is your first night in fight club,
you have to fight.
Little by little,
you are just letting yourself become...
Tyler Durden.
You are not your job,
or how much money you have to fight!
No. You have a house.
Rented in your name.
You have jobs, you have a whole life.
You have night job because you can't sleep.
Or you stay up and make soap.
Molly you are fucking Marla, Tyler.
Technically, you are fucking Marla.
But it's all the same to her.
Oh, my God.
Now you see our dilemma.
She knows too much.
I think we are gonna have to talk about
how this might compromise our goals.
What... What are you saying?
This is... This is bullshit.
This is bullshit!
I am not listening to this.
You are insane!
No.
You are insane.
And we simply
do not have time for this crap.
It's called a changeover.
The movie goes on,
and nobody in the audience has any idea.
Sir!
Are you checking out?
Yeah. Bill me.
I need you to initial
this list of phone calls, please.
When were these made?
It says right there, sir.
Between 2:00 and 3:30 this morning.
Have I been going to bed earlier
every night?
Have I been sleeping later?
Have I been Tyler,
longer and longer?
Is anybody here?
Dj vu,
all over again.
Yeah, with enough soap,
one could blow up just about anything.
Oh, my God.
1888.
Who am I calling?
1888 Franklin. This is maintenance.
Hello?
1888 Franklin Street?
Yes.
Can I help you?
Hello?
Yeah, yeah.
I need to talk to your supervisor
right away.
Speaking.
Ok, listen to me.
I think something really terrible is about
to happen to your building.
You have got...
It's under control, sir.
Excuse me?
Don't worry about us, sir.
We are solid.
2160.
Marla! Marla! Hey, Marla, wait!
Marla, wait! I gotta talk to you!
Marla! Marla!
Your whack out bald freaks hit me
with a fucking broom!
I know, I am sorry. I kinda warn you...
They almost broke my arm!
They were burning their finger tips with lye.
The stink was unbelievable.
Look, look, listen to me.
It will take a tremendous act of faith
on your part, but you gotta hear me out.
Ok, here comes an avalanche of bullshit.
A little more faith than that.
Well listen, I don't wanna hear
anything you have to say.
You have every right to be...
I will just have a coffee, thanks.
Sir, anything you order is free of charge, sir.
Why is it free of charge?
Don't, don't, don't ask.
Whatever.
I will have the clam chowder,
the fried chicken with a baked potato
with everything and chocolate chiffon pie.
Clean food, please.
In that case sir, may I advise against
the lady eating the clam chowder.
No clam chowder. Thank you.
You got about 30 seconds.
I know that I have been acting
very very strange,
ok?
I... I know that it's gotta seem
like there is two sides
to me when you with...
Two sides?
You are Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Jackass.
I deserved that but...
look I have come to realise
something very very important.
What?
The full extent of our relationship
was not really...
clear to me up until now,
for reasons I am not gonna go into.
But the important things are...
I know I have not been treating you so nice.
Yeah, whatever.
No, no, no, no.
15 seconds, 15 seconds, please!
Please 15 seconds,
don't open your mouth to me.
I am trying to tell you that I am sorry.
Because what I have come to realize,
is that I really like you, Marla.
You do?
I really do.
I care about you and I don't want anything
bad to happen to you because of me.
Marla,
your life is in danger.
What?
You need to leave town for a while.
Get out of any major city.
And just go camping or something...
You are an insane person.
No, no. I have involved you in
something terrible.
That's about to happen...
No.
You are not...
Shut up!
Safe.
Listen, I tried Tyler.
I really tried.
I know you did.
There are things about you I like.
You are smart, you are funny,
you are spectacular in bed.
But...
you are intolerable.
You have very serious emotional problems,
deep-seeded problems
for which you should seek,
professional help.
I know.
And I, I am sorry.
You are sorry, I am sorry,
everyone is sorry but...
I can't do this anymore.
I can't.
I won't.
I am gone.
You can't leave, Marla!
You are not safe!
Marla, wait you got to understand!
No, leave me alone!
Marla, I am trying to protect you!
Just go. Look, just go away.
I don't ever want to see you again!
That's fine.
If that's what it takes...
Hey wait, wait right here.
Hold it right there! Shut up! Shut up!
Take this money
and get on this bus. And I promise you I will
never bother you again if that's what you want.
Shut up!
Please get on the bus.
Why are you doing this?
Because they think you
are some kind of a threat.
I... I can't explain it right now.
Just trust me.
If I see where you are going,
you will not be safe.
I am not paying this back.
I consider it asshole tax.
That's fine. Remember, stay out of major cities
for at least a couple of days.
Ok?
Tyler...
You are the worst thing
that ever happened to me.
Hello.
I need you to arrest me.
I am the leader
of a terrorist organization,
responsible for numerous acts
of vandalism,
and assault all over this city.
In the metropolitan area,
we had probably
a couple hundred members.
Chapters have sprung up in
five or six other major cities already.
This is a tightly regimented organization
with many cells capable of operating
completely independent of central leadership.
Look, go to the house, ok?
1537 Paper Street.
That's our headquarters.
In the back, buried in the garden,
you will find the body of Robert Paulsen.
In the basement,
you are gonna find some bathtubs
that have been used very recently
to make large quantities of nitroglycerin.
I believe the plan is...
is to blow up the headquarters
of these credit-card companies
and the TRW building.
Why these buildings?
Why credit-card companies?
If you erase the debt record then
we all go back to zero.
You will create total chaos.
Keep him talking.
I need to make a phone call.
I really admire what you are doing.
What?
You are a brave man to order this.
You are a genius, sir.
You said if anyone ever interferes
with Project Mayhem, even you,
we gotta get his balls.
It's useless to fight.
It's really a powerful gesture, Mr. Durden.
It will set quite an example.
You are making a big mistake! Fellas.
You said you would say that.
I am not Tyler Durden!
You told us you would say that too.
Alright. I am Tyler Durden.
Listen to me.
I am giving you a direct order.
We are aborting
this mission right now.
You said you would definitely say that.
Let me go!
Hold on.
Are you fucking out of your minds?
You are police officers!
Is somebody timing this?
Oh no, no.
No. No.
Keep your mouth shut.
Shit!
Yeah!
Hey, you know,
some of this information checks out.
Let's go over to that house on Paper Street.
Be right there.
Ok.
Hey, wait!
You got him?
I got him.
Sir, we have to do this, Mr Durden.
Stop fighting!
Where is the rubber band?
Get away from me!
Drop that fucking knife! Drop it!
Back up.
Face down on the floor,
both of you right now!
Get down on the floor!
First person comes out
this fucking door gets a...
gets a lead salad! You understand?
Get away! Stay away!
I ran.
I ran until my muscles burned
and my veins pumped battery acid.
Then I ran some more.
What the fuck are you doing,
running around in your underpants?
Man, you look like a crazy person.
No. I am onto you.
I know what is going on here.
Come on, then. I got us a great place
to watch from.
It will be like pay-per-view.
Oh, Christ.
Now what are you doing?
I am stopping this.
Why?
The greatest thing you have ever done, man.
No,
I can't let this happen.
You know there are 10 other bombs
in 10 other buildings.
Goddamn it! Since when is Project Mayhem
about murder?
The buildings are empty.
Security, maintenance, all our people.
We are not killing anyone, man.
We are setting them free!
Bob is dead.
They shot him in the head.
You wanna make an omelet,
you gotta break eggs.
No. I am not listening to you.
You are not even there.
Would not do that.
Not unless I knew which wires were what.
If you know, then I know.
Or...
maybe I knew you would know, so I spent
the whole day thinking about the wrong ones.
You think?
Oh, heavens, no. Not the green one.
Pull any one but the green one.
I asked you not to do that!
Fuck!
Tyler, get away from the van.
Tyler, I am not kidding!
Get away from the van!
Goddamn it!
Ok.
You are now firing a gun
at your imaginary friend
near 400 gallons of nitroglycerin!
Cool it, Tyler! Tyler!
God!
Come on.
Don't go!
What?
Three minutes.
This is it.
The beginning.
Ground zero.
I think this is about where we came in.
Would you like to say a few words
to mark the occasion?
I am sorry?
I still can't think of anything.
Flashback humour.
It's getting exciting now.
Two and a half.
Think of everything
we have accomplished, man.
Out these windows, we will view
the collapse of financial history.
One step closer to economic equilibrium.
Why is she here?
Tying up loose ends.
Put me down, you bald headed fuck!
I am begging you, please don't do this.
I am not doing this. We are doing this.
This is what we want.
No. I don't want this.
Right. Except you...
is meaningless now.
We have to forget about you.
You are a voice in my head.
You are a voice in mine!
You are a fucking hallucination.
Why can't I get rid of you?
You need me.
No. I don't. I really don't anymore.
Hey, you created me.
I didn't create some loser alter ego
to make me feel better.
Take some responsibility.
I do.
I am responsible for all of it,
and I accept that.
So, please, I am begging you,
please call this off.
Have I ever let us down?
How far have you come because of me?
I will bring us through this.
As always,
I will carry you kicking and screaming,
and in the end,
you will thank me.
Tyler.
I am grateful to you
for everything that you have done for me.
But this is too much.
I don't want this.
What do you want?
You wanna go back to your shit job?
Fucking condo world, watching sitcoms?
Fuck you! I won't do it.
Oh my God, this can't be happening.
It's already done, so shut up!
60 seconds till CRI.
No.
I can figure this out.
This is not even real.
You are not real. That gun is...
That gun is not even in your hand.
The gun's in my hand.
Hey good for you.
That doesn't change a thing.
Why do you wanna put a gun to your head?
Not my head, Tyler.
Our head.
Interesting.
Where are you going with this, Ikea boy?
Hey?
It's you and me.
Friends?
Tyler,
I want you to really listen to me.
Ok.
My eyes are open.
What's that smell?
Where is everybody?
Oh, no. What's going on?
Mr. Durden!
Oh, my God!
Sir!
Are you...
Are you alright, sir?
Oh, yeah, I am ok.
You look terrible, sir. What happened?
Oh, nothing, it's no problem.
No, no, no, sir. He is not kidding.
You look really awful.
You need medical assistance.
I am fine.
Look, I am fine.
Everything's fine.
Eat my shit.
Let her go.
Christ Almighty!
You!
Hi, Marla.
Leave her with me.
Get your stuff. Meet me downstairs.
Are you sure?
Yes, I am sure.
You fucker!
What kind of sick fucking game
are you playing at,
putting me on a fucki...
Oh, my God, your face!
Yeah, I know.
What happened?
Don't ask.
You are shot.
Yes, I am shot.
Oh, my God.
I can't believe he is standing.
One tough motherfucker.
Who did this?
I did actually.
Find some gauze.
You shot yourself?
Yes, but it's ok.
Marla, look at me.
I am really ok.
Trust me.
Everything's gonna be fine.
You met me at a very strange time in my life.